== Demographics 
The demographics data for this study included data on participants' age and sex, as well as the season of enrollment in the study. The feature "Basic_Demos-Sex" had categorical int values, 0 for females and 1 for males.
These 3 features in the dataset contained no null values, needing no further cleaning and preprocessing.

After EDA, it was found that the dataset includes a disportionately high number of younger participants with the mean age being 10 years old. However, participants in this dataset ranged from as young as 5 years old to as old as 22 years old. This may limit the generalizability of findings to older participants.
The analysis also revealed that over 60% of partipants were males. For the remaining feature, enrollment season, the analysis showed that enrollment was evenly distributed between all seasons (Spring, Summer, Fall, and Winter).

The figures shown below help us visualize these results. 

#figure(
  image("demos-age.png"),
  caption: [The distribution for Participant Age]
) <age-distribution>

#figure(
  image("demos-sex-piechart.png"),
  caption: [Pie Chart for Participant Sex Distribution]
) <sex-distribution>

#figure(
  image("enrollment-season-piechart.png"),
  caption: [Pie Chart for Enrollment Season Distribution]
) <season-distribution>


=== Physical Measures
Physical measures are features of recorded data on height, weight, BMI (Body Mass Index), Blood Pressure (Diastolic and Systolic), Heart Rate, and Waist Circumference. The season in which these were recoreded is included as well.

During analysis, the Waist Circumference feature had to be removed from the dataset as it contained over 77% missing values and would impact further analysis. 
The rest of the features contained 16% - 25%, which is low enough to keep in the dataset for analysis. After deciding to keep these features, imputation resulted in the replacement of missing values with the median of each feature, expect for season, as they are numeric and not normally distributed data.
For season, missing values were imputed with the mode, which was Spring.

After cleaning the date, exploratory analysis revealed that seasonality for physical measures were also evenly distributed and histrograms were created to visualize the distributions of all the numeric features.

#figure(
  image("physical-measures-distribution.png"),
  caption: [Distribution of Physical Measures]
) <physical-measures-distribution>

As seen in the figure above, BMI and Weight are right-skewed, further supporting that there is a high number of younger participants in the data. Surprisingly, Height appears to be normal.

=== Sleep Disturbance Scale 
The Sleep Disturbance Scale captures data sleep disorders in children, using a scale to categorize them. There are a total of two features under this scale, the Total Raw Score and Total T SCore.
The season of when this data was captured is also included and is also evenly distributed, which is consistent with other seaosonality features in the dataset. 

Histograms were created to show the Raw score and the Total score. 

#figure(
  image("sds-distribution.png"),
  caption: [Distribution of Sleep Disturbance Scale Raw and Total Scores]
) <sds-measures-distribution>





=== Question 3: PCIAT / Age Correlation
To test if there was any correlation between Age and the Parent-Child Internet Addiction Test, various statistical tests were ran to analyze the relationship between PCIAT Total scores, individual PCIAT questions, and Age.

To start off, indivudal PCIAT questions from 1 - 20 were imputed with the mode, as they are categorical int values (0-5) indicating the severity of the behavior. And PCIAT Total was imputed with the median. This deals with missing values in our data.

#figure(
  image("pciat-age_scatterplot.png"),
  caption: [Scatterplot of Age and PCIAT Total Relationship]
) <pciat-age-scatterplot>

Using the scatterplot above to visualize the relationship between Age and PCIAT Total, initially, it appears that there is no relationship between the 2 features. So, statistical tests are needed to formally establish if there is a relationship.

At first, Pearson's Correlation seemed like the optimal test to run, but after attempting to verify all assumptions to run the test, it was found that the data was not normal.
To tackle this, the Spearman's Rank Test was used to test for correlation as it did not require the data to be normally distributed. 

After running the test for PCIAT Total and Age, the test yielded extremely small p-values which indicated that these 2 features did in fact have some sort of relationship. 
The Spearman Correlation statistic indicates that there is a montonic relationship, meaning as age increases, so does the PCIAT Total score. 

Next, as a supplement to the Spearman Rank test performed on PCIAT Total and Age, the same test was used on all individual PCIAT questions and Age. When ran, all 20 tests yielded the same result of extremely small p-values and a statistically significant monotonic relationship.

As an extra measure to confirm if there truly was a relationship between the categorical variable - individual PCIAT questions - and Age, the Chi-Square Test was also ran. Similar to the previous results of the Spearman Rank Test, this test yielded very small p-values as well and 
Chi-Square statistics ranging from as low as 74.201823 to as high as 739.785700, meaning some questions had a stronger relationship with age than others. The highest statistic belonged to the test ran on Question 7, which asked "How often does your child check his or her e-mail before doing something else?". 

With very small p-values coming from all the tests ran, it can be concluded that PCIAT scores and questions do indeed correlate with age. 

Below is the new scatterplot of the relationship between PCIAT and Age.

#figure(
  image("pciat-age_correlationLine.png"),
  caption: [Scatterplot of Age and PCIAT Total Relationship with Trendline]
) <pciat-age-correlation-scatterplot>




